---
title: "Learning some tough lessons!"
date: "2018-03-21"
author: "Jamie Lendrum"
tags: [r, rstudio, htmlwidgets, git, github]
---

It's been a while since I've posted - mainly because I got myself into a mess with Git and I've been putting off trying to sort it out. I've been wanting to post about `htmlwidgets` for a while now, and in my naivity I thought I'd retrospectively try to use the `DT` package on one of my older posts to jazz up the tables to be more interactive...big mistake!

**Lesson 1 - Don't enhance old posts! Leave them as they are!**

I thought it would be a relatively simple case of simply wrapping `datatable()` around my dataframes, and hey presto, javascript magic! I found out that the javascript from `htmlwidgets` can interfere with the javascript in the rest of my webpage, messing things up. I did however discover that a package called `widgetframe` can create a frame for your htmlwidgets so it doesn't interfere (see [the blogdown documentation](https://bookdown.org/yihui/blogdown/html-widgets.html)). Unfortunately this still didn't work for me, leading to my next lesson:

**Lesson 2 - Anything with javascript is never as easy as it seems!**

Before long, I was looking for a way to undo those changes and revert to an earlier commit in my Git log. Unfortunately I tend to use the Git functionality that comes with RStudio, and being able to revert isn't really possible, so I was left fumbling with worryingly powerful commands in Git Bash! I did what's known as a 'hard' reset, but then had to undo that when Git told me I had to Pull before I can push, effectively undoing my reversion. The lesson?

**Lesson 3 - Start using Git on the command line! Practice by creating a new repo with some meaningless text files in it.**

Getting into a Git mess is not fun and sometimes a program like RStudio trying to be helpful is not giving you the tough love you need!

I'll try `htmlwidgets` again in my next post and see how I fare...
